Title: Normalising Operations Teams' Internal Interfaces Through Continuous Integration
Date: Feb 7 2022
Category: jinkies

I had the most extraordinary experience seeing an operations team that had a lot of automation performed via Continuous Integration jobs.
When I arrived, they had just reached the point where a lot of tasks were now automated, and we added more as time went by and we created 
new tools.



* When a maintenance task had a CI job, that maintenance was performed regularly and fearlessly.
* When a maintenance task had a good automation script in version control that was run from an ops person's laptop, that script was trusted
 but far less so.
* When a task involved investigation to figure out how it was usually accomplished, that often generated a trouble ticket or a new script.
* No CI job was defined via the UI. Every job was defined in code. CI jobs that are defined in the UI are fragile; they cannot be easily versioned.


Adding a new CI job via code is far more effort than delivering a script or program to perform a task and adding a help message to the script; however, 
adding that job will ensure that every teammate is confident in how they are invoking the script or program. The CI interface becomes a universal
front end for all maintenance jobs, and the job definition code is the universal adapter.

For my team, the Jenkinsfile declarative syntax was simply how we invoked all of our tooling, and also abstracted away the precise details of what that 
invocation was.

For Continuous Integration to easily act as a force lever for operations, there must be both a simple interface to manage the server, an easy to use
 method of adding jobs, and a high degree of confidence that the CI server is easily backed up. So many places I've worked at have CI that is understood 
 to be a fragile single point of failure. We are not going to reproduce that pattern. 

It's also often seen as a developer tool, not as an operations tool. 

jinkies will demonstrate that this is primarily due to CI not being well understood and very poorly configured. We will lean hard into a 
well known platform, Jenkins, and demonstrate that it is possible to completely build and configure Jenkins via code to behave very close to a 
stateless application. This enables the operations team to deploy a configured-in-code Jenkins instance that will immediately be a useful tool.

jinkies will also provide a simple pattern on the command line for adding new jobs and completely rebuilding the Jenkins server regularly.



The aim is to increase the fearlessness of the team maintaining the infrastructure. The Continuous Integration pattern is a practice worth adopting.