Title:  Jenkins plugins.txt and build.gradle dependencies generation
Date: May 2 2022
Category: programming
Tags: jinx jinkies golang

There's a new feature jinx, my cli tool for coordinating a jenkins instance from the jinkies docker container image. The new feature is something I've wanted forever: the ability to generate either a plugins.txt or a build.gradle dependencies section.

## Plugins.txt generation is about the sys admin
Containers bring static setup to the world of dynamic applications. The old "mutating state is bad" saw from functional programming comes to infrastructure in containers, as has been written about in any number of excellent books, such as [Infrastructure as Code](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/infrastructure-as-code/9781098114664/).

But lots of applications aren't designed for this, and Jenkins is no exception here. In this case, installing a plugin will resolve its dependencies, so a `plugins.txt` file naming 5 plugins often results in tens of plugins you don't recognise coming along for the ride (especially if one of the plugins you wants has a dependency that has a dependency on blueocean...)

I'm seeing that Jenkins plugins are being pinned to specific versions of the Jenkins engine. **If you want to roll a Jenkins release back due to a bug/incompatibility, you have to be able to reliably roll back all plugins to their old versions, including plugins.** To tame this, I've wanted a `plugins.txt` generator. My workflow idea is:

1. use the jenkins plugin cli tool to install plugins and their dependencies into my container.
1. interrogate the file system for the plugins&dependencies and generate a new version of plugins.txt including all dependencies. Discard the old container.
1. rebuild a jenkins container using the new list of plugins, and verify that no additional ones come along for the ride.

## build.gradle generation is about the developer
Disclaimer here is that I don't generate _all_ of build.gradle, just the dependencies block, but that's exactly what I want.

Why? Because Jenkins is has so many classes in that it's almost a DSL in its own right, and I want autocomplete for those classes when writing groovy code in jinkies. [Intellij Idea](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) will use gradle to download jars and provide autocomplete, as long as it knows what jars you want. As I wrote above, we don't know what jars we have available until after plugins resolution has happened.

Right now, both of these features depend upon having a container that the tooling can interrogate for plugins. However, I've been thinking of just adding a `--from-directory` flag that lets users use any arbitrary directory for plugins.