Title: Tired of writing a helper script
Date: Oct 9 2021
Modified: Oct 9 2021 20:35 MST
Category: tech
Tags: jinkies scripting practices

My jinkies project got sidetracked for a couple of weeks, and it was frustrating, and the reasons and solutions are 
worth learning from, so they're worth writing down.

## So What Was This Script

Jinkies needs credentials files to authenticate to github, so I wrote a tool to generate those files. I've been 
fooling with the idea for a long, long time of writing a script that renders templates with a cli syntax.

### So why was it sucky to write

My original ambition for the script was to read in both mulitiple credentials files and provide a syntax that would 
let a user overwrite variables inside of any of the templates using cli flags. It was a cool idea?

I started out by deciding that I should handle argv myself, rather than using an argument parsing library. After a 
week of giving it an hour here and there and not progressing on what I actually want to do, I realised that every 
test I'd written and all of the confusion in the script was because I was wasting my time writing my own option parser.

As soon as I switched ot using the builtin argument parser in Python, my productivity soared.

Lesson: let libraries carry your weight.

### Did I learn anything cool?

Yes! While I was messing around with parsing argv, I wrote doctests, which I haven't written before.  So it was nice 
to learn something new.

I hadn't used the new-to-me argparse module. That thing is slick! For a built-in way of dealing with args especially,
it's super competent and I'll look forwards to it again.

I hadn't appreciated how much time I can spend not doing the thing I want to do, and how much that saps motivation 
over time. I should be searching for more shortcuts in implementing things.
