Title: Jenkins with creds!
Date: Sep 14 2021
Modified: Sep 14 2021 20:23 MST
Category: tech
Tags: jenkins docker jcasc

You can find the code for this entry in the credentials tag https://github.com/gwynforthewyn/jinkies/tags

I got the Jenkins working with credentials and with Jenkins Code as Configuration! Here's what I had to do ultimately:

* Install the jcasc plugin. It turns out I can support the sort of dynamic credential loading I want, but I had to experiment to figure that out. 

* Ensure I was consistent with my variables names throughout the codebase. 

* Apparently endlessly refactor build scripts. This was primarily because...your tools should feel good, not okay.

* Then I really only had to put the right code sample into the right directory. 


## problems

I was surprisingly careless with some variable names that needed to be tracked consistently across several files.
I had a mixture of CASK and CASC, for example, in the CASC_JENKINS_CONFIG variable.

I had a while where I was making build script changes that seemed to be bizarrely disappearing and reappearing. I was 
blaming branch merge shenanigans and feeling annoyed, but it was typing a script name with muscle memory that showed me
I had two scripts, one called `build.sh` and one called `build`. 

The amount of duplication of effort and implementation across the two scripts was a large timesink. It speaks again
towards consistency being needed.

## lessons

I really was doubting my ability to do this; I've worked with a similar system for a long time now, but I hadn't set it
up individually. My initial idea and implementation were both to use jcasc, but I got into a bit of a panic for a bit
thinking I should use groovy because it's what we use at work. My self-doubt made it sound hard to see anything about 
dynamically generating credentials with jcasc, but I experimented and saw that the functionality I want is pretty simple.

If I work on my consistency the first time, I can save time. It's like chess: you don't improve by making one big leap,
but by the accumulation of tiny improvements. Simple naming consistency can help.

The fact that the consistency issue was duplicated across variable names and file names was eye opening.

Lots of reading was worth more than staring at the screen not knowing how to proceed. Reading was worth more at the start.

Similarly, finding code samples and bookmarking them was very useful in crossing the final hurdle. 

